docs/sources/hypothesis.md, before:

# Hypothes.is

|  |  |
|---------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| Agent Source Token        | `8075957f-e0da-405f-9eee-7f35519d7c4c` |
| Consumes Artifacts        | `domain-list` |
| Subject Coverage          | All Hypothes.is annotations that are available to the public |
| Object Coverage           | All DOIs, Landing Page URLs, plain text DOIs. |
| Data Contributor          | Hypothes.is |
| Data Origin               | Annotations made by Hypothes.is users, via the Hypothes.is API |
| Freshness                 | Every few hours. |
| Identifies                | Linked DOIs, unlinked DOIs, Landing Page URLs |
| License                   | Creative Commons [CC0 1.0 Universal (CC0 1.0)](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) |
| Looks in                  | URL for annotation, text of annotations |
| Name                      | Hypothes.is |
| Operated by               | Crossref |
| Produces Evidence Records | Yes |
| Produces relation types   | `annotates`, `discusses` |
| Source ID                 | `hypothesis` |
| Updates or deletions      | None expected |

## What it is

Users of the Hypothes.is annotate and discuss webpages. The Hypothes.is Agent monitors annotations. It looks for two things: the annotation of Registered Content (for example article Landing Pages) and the mentioning of Registered Content (for example DOIs) in the text of annotations.

## What it does

When looking for annotations of Registered Content:

 - Scans every article Landing Page domain in the `domain-list`, including `doi.org`
 - Makes a query to the Hypothes.is API for annotations to URLs on that domain.
 - For each result, attempts to reverse that URL back to a Registered Content Item, recording an Event with the `annotates` relation type.

 - Scans every article Landing Page domain in the `domain-list`, including `doi.org`
 - Makes a query to the Hypothes.is API for annotations that contain URLs on that domain in the text of the annotation.
 - For each result, looks in the text for links to Registered Content and records Events with the `discusses` relation type.

## Example Event

Annotates:

    {
      "license": "https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/",
      "obj_id": "https://doi.org/10.1007/bfb0105342",
      "source_token": "8075957f-e0da-405f-9eee-7f35519d7c4c",
      "occurred_at": "2015-11-04T06:30:10Z",
      "subj_id": "https://hypothes.is/a/NrIw4KlKTwa7MzbTrMAyjw",
      "id": "00044ac9-d729-4d3f-a2c8-618bcdf1d252",
      "evidence_record": "https://evidence.eventdata.crossref.org/evidence/20170412-hypothesis-de560308-e500-4c55-ba28-799d7b272039",
      "terms": "https://doi.org/10.13003/CED-terms-of-use",
      "action": "add",
      "subj": {
        "pid": "https://hypothes.is/a/NrIw4KlKTwa7MzbTrMAyjw",
        "json-url": "https://hypothes.is/api/annotations/NrIw4KlKTwa7MzbTrMAyjw",
        "url": "https://hyp.is/NrIw4KlKTwa7MzbTrMAyjw/arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/9803052",
        "type": "annotation",
        "title": "[This article](http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/9803052) was referenced by [\"Decoherence\"](http://web.mit.edu/redingtn/www/netadv/Xdecoherenc.html) on Sunday, September 25 2005.",
        "issued": "2015-11-04T06:30:10Z"
      },
      "source_id": "hypothesis",
      "obj": {
        "pid": "https://doi.org/10.1007/bfb0105342",
        "url": "http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/9803052"
      },
      "timestamp": "2017-04-12T07:16:20Z",
      "relation_type_id": "annotates"
    }

Discusses:

      {
        "license": "https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/",
        "obj_id": "https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.earth.32.082503.144359",
        "source_token": "8075957f-e0da-405f-9eee-7f35519d7c4c",
        "occurred_at": "2015-05-11T04:03:44Z",
        "subj_id": "https://hypothes.is/a/qNv_Ei5ZSnWOWO54GXdFPA",
        "id": "00054d54-7f35-4557-b083-7fa1f028856d",
        "evidence_record": "https://evidence.eventdata.crossref.org/evidence/20170413-hypothesis-a37bc9bf-1dc0-4c8a-b943-2e14beb4de6f",
        "terms": "https://doi.org/10.13003/CED-terms-of-use",
        "action": "add",
        "subj": {
          "pid": "https://hypothes.is/a/qNv_Ei5ZSnWOWO54GXdFPA",
          "json-url": "https://hypothes.is/api/annotations/qNv_Ei5ZSnWOWO54GXdFPA",
          "url": "https://hyp.is/qNv_Ei5ZSnWOWO54GXdFPA/www.cnn.com/2015/05/05/opinions/sutter-sea-level-climate/#",
          "type": "annotation",
          "title": "The various scenarios presented should be specified as being global averages of expected sea level rise. The sea level rise observed locally will vary significantly, due to a lot of different geophysical factors.",
          "issued": "2015-05-11T04:03:44Z"
        },
        "source_id": "hypothesis",
        "obj": {
        "pid": "https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.earth.32.082503.144359",
        "url": "https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.earth.32.082503.144359"
        },
        "timestamp": "2017-04-13T10:40:18Z",
        "relation_type_id": "discusses"
      }


## Evidence Record

 - Creates observations of type `landing-page-url` for `annotates` relation types.
 - Creates observations of type `plaintext` for `discusses` relation types.

## Edits / Deletion

 - Events may be edited if they are found to be faulty, e.g. non-existent DOIs
 
## Quirks

None known.

## Failure modes

 - Publisher sites may block the Event Data Bot collecting Landing Pages.
 - Publisher sites may prevent the Event Data Bot collecting Landing Pages with robots.txt
 - Wordpress.com may block the Agent
 - Wordpress.com may block the Percolator Bot

## Further information

 - [Hypothes.is](https://hypothes.is)

Commit message:

Review of remaining documentation.
The following still need detailed review:

 - Software in use
 - Individual Agents
 - Data flow
 - FAQ
 - Glossary

docs/sources/hypothesis.md, after:

# Hypothes.is

|  |  |
|---------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| Agent Source Token        | `8075957f-e0da-405f-9eee-7f35519d7c4c` |
| Consumes Artifacts        | `domain-list` |
| Subject Coverage          | All Hypothes.is annotations that are available to the public |
| Object Coverage           | All DOIs, Landing Page URLs, plain text DOIs. |
| Data Contributor          | Hypothes.is |
| Data Origin               | Annotations made by Hypothes.is users, via the Hypothes.is API |
| Freshness                 | Every few hours. |
| Identifies                | Linked DOIs, unlinked DOIs, Landing Page URLs |
| License                   | Creative Commons [CC0 1.0 Universal (CC0 1.0)](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) |
| Looks in                  | URL for annotation, text of annotations |
| Name                      | Hypothes.is |
| Operated by               | Crossref |
| Produces Evidence Records | Yes |
| Produces relation types   | `annotates`, `discusses` |
| Source ID                 | `hypothesis` |
| Updates or deletions      | None expected |

## What it is

Users of the Hypothes.is annotate and discuss webpages. The Hypothes.is Agent monitors annotations. It looks for two things: the annotation of Registered Content (for example article Landing Pages) and the mentioning of Registered Content (for example DOIs) in the text of annotations.

## What it does

When looking for annotations of Registered Content:

 - Scans every article Landing Page domain in the `domain-list`, including `doi.org`
 - Makes a query to the Hypothes.is API for annotations to URLs on that domain.
 - For each result, attempts to reverse that URL back to a Registered Content Item, recording an Event with the `annotates` relation type.

 - Scans every article Landing Page domain in the `domain-list`, including `doi.org`
 - Makes a query to the Hypothes.is API for annotations that contain URLs on that domain in the text of the annotation.
 - For each result, looks in the text for links to Registered Content and records Events with the `discusses` relation type.

## Example Event

Annotates:

    {
      "license": "https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/",
      "obj_id": "https://doi.org/10.1007/bfb0105342",
      "source_token": "8075957f-e0da-405f-9eee-7f35519d7c4c",
      "occurred_at": "2015-11-04T06:30:10Z",
      "subj_id": "https://hypothes.is/a/NrIw4KlKTwa7MzbTrMAyjw",
      "id": "00044ac9-d729-4d3f-a2c8-618bcdf1d252",
      "evidence_record": "https://evidence.eventdata.crossref.org/evidence/20170412-hypothesis-de560308-e500-4c55-ba28-799d7b272039",
      "terms": "https://doi.org/10.13003/CED-terms-of-use",
      "action": "add",
      "subj": {
        "pid": "https://hypothes.is/a/NrIw4KlKTwa7MzbTrMAyjw",
        "json-url": "https://hypothes.is/api/annotations/NrIw4KlKTwa7MzbTrMAyjw",
        "url": "https://hyp.is/NrIw4KlKTwa7MzbTrMAyjw/arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/9803052",
        "type": "annotation",
        "title": "[This article](http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/9803052) was referenced by [\"Decoherence\"](http://web.mit.edu/redingtn/www/netadv/Xdecoherenc.html) on Sunday, September 25 2005.",
        "issued": "2015-11-04T06:30:10Z"
      },
      "source_id": "hypothesis",
      "obj": {
        "pid": "https://doi.org/10.1007/bfb0105342",
        "url": "http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/9803052"
      },
      "timestamp": "2017-04-12T07:16:20Z",
      "relation_type_id": "annotates"
    }

Discusses:

      {
        "license": "https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/",
        "obj_id": "https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.earth.32.082503.144359",
        "source_token": "8075957f-e0da-405f-9eee-7f35519d7c4c",
        "occurred_at": "2015-05-11T04:03:44Z",
        "subj_id": "https://hypothes.is/a/qNv_Ei5ZSnWOWO54GXdFPA",
        "id": "00054d54-7f35-4557-b083-7fa1f028856d",
        "evidence_record": "https://evidence.eventdata.crossref.org/evidence/20170413-hypothesis-a37bc9bf-1dc0-4c8a-b943-2e14beb4de6f",
        "terms": "https://doi.org/10.13003/CED-terms-of-use",
        "action": "add",
        "subj": {
          "pid": "https://hypothes.is/a/qNv_Ei5ZSnWOWO54GXdFPA",
          "json-url": "https://hypothes.is/api/annotations/qNv_Ei5ZSnWOWO54GXdFPA",
          "url": "https://hyp.is/qNv_Ei5ZSnWOWO54GXdFPA/www.cnn.com/2015/05/05/opinions/sutter-sea-level-climate/#",
          "type": "annotation",
          "title": "The various scenarios presented should be specified as being global averages of expected sea level rise. The sea level rise observed locally will vary significantly, due to a lot of different geophysical factors.",
          "issued": "2015-05-11T04:03:44Z"
        },
        "source_id": "hypothesis",
        "obj": {
        "pid": "https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.earth.32.082503.144359",
        "url": "https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.earth.32.082503.144359"
        },
        "timestamp": "2017-04-13T10:40:18Z",
        "relation_type_id": "discusses"
      }


## Evidence Record

 - Creates observations of type `landing-page-url` for `annotates` relation types.
 - Creates observations of type `plaintext` for `discusses` relation types.

## Edits / Deletion

 - Events may be edited if they are found to be faulty, e.g. non-existent DOIs
 
## Quirks

None known.

## Failure modes

 - We may fail to reverse landing pages to DOIs.
 - The Hypothesis API may be unavailable.

## Further information

 - [Hypothes.is](https://hypothes.is)
